Before we get started, let's take a look at
the CloudFormation script that we did as a test.
This is the script that we had.
It shows a resource, which is a VPC,
a description and a value for the site or blog of that VPC.
Now, there's a few things here.
This is what a normal CloudFormation script will look like.
It would have many resources.
However, it needs to have at least one resource.
This is something you need to remember going forward.
You must have at least one resource,
otherwise you'll get an error.
Right. By the way,
we're going to be seeing a plenty of errors ideally,
and we're going to get to troubleshoot them as we go.
That's a good thing because you will get plenty of situations in the real world.
Well, you'll be creating resources that may already exist or you forget to clean them
up and hopefully we get to see that so
that we get to troubleshoot those errors in real time.
Now, the description field,
in this script it's totally optional,
you don't need that and you'll see
other sections such as parameters and outputs that will go over that slowly.
Now, in terms of workflow,
we are obviously going to be updating this file and adding a lot of text,
a lot of resources,
a lot of code in general.
So in order to do that,
we're going to add some sections,
we're going to discuss them, we're going to test them,
and we're going to create the stack and we're going to update it.
Now, as we do that of course we are going to be typing in many commands.
So we have to make our lives easier not to type so much.
So let's discuss some helper scripts that I have for you.
So if I were to create a stack in CloudFormation,
I would have to type AWS CloudFormation create-stack
and provide the name of the stack,
some texts, a template body,
which is the file that we're editing,
the parameter file if any which we haven't discussed yet.
So as you can see it's a very lengthy command,
we don't want to have to be typing that over and
over and even if the stack was already created,
you have the situation where you have to do
update stack and type all the commands over and over,
so we're not going to do that.
What I have here is a create stack script file that we're going to
use and all I need to do is parse the stack name,
parse the file name of the template,
that's the file that we're editing,
and parse a parameter file if any,
which we're going to need here pretty soon and we're going to explain what that is.
Now, when we're updating,
I have a different script that the only difference is that it has update stack.
Now, this is my simplified version of nice workflow.
However, we could do a more elaborate one if you're a developer,
if you know Python or more advanced bash scripting,
you could actually do an AWS CloudFormation
describe stack command which is going to show you whether a stack already exist.
What that's going to help you is,
hey I'm trying to re-run this CloudFormation where the my stack already exist.
All I want to do is update it again.
Okay? In that situation,
you could have an if statement bash script that would do,
if it doesn't exist do a create and if it exists already do an update.
Okay? That would be a more elaborate workflow.
As you can see you can go as automated as you want but for our purpose right now,
this little two scripts are going to be sufficient.
So again back to our diagram here,
let's see what the goal is for this lesson.
We will not be creating web server,
databases or any of that.
What we're going to do is create the underlying infrastructure,
what I call the networking portion.
So in this case,
we're going to be building the VPCs,
attaching the Internet gateway,
the subnets the necessary routing for the subnets and so on.
So let's get started.